People can become infected with
tapeworms by eating food
or drinking water contaminated with
tapeworm eggs or larvae.
In the US, most infections are
caused by eating undercooked
or raw, contaminated pork,
beef, or freshwater fish.
If you eat meat containing the larval
form of the tapeworm,
the larval cysts hatch
and develop into adult
worms in your intestine.
Some types attach themselves
to the wall of the intestine,
grow, and produce eggs.
Others exit your body with stool.
An adult tapeworm
can live up to 20 years
and grow to 50 feet in length.
Larvae can penetrate the intestinal wall
and travel out of your
intestine to other tissue
such as your lungs or liver,
where they can form cysts.
Tapeworms in the intestine
often cause no symptoms.
Sometimes pieces of the tapeworm
are excreted in stool.
Other signs and symptoms
include nausea, abdominal pain, and diarrhea.
Tapeworm larvae that move out of
the intestine and form cysts
in other tissue can cause
organ and tissue damage.
Cysts in the brain can cause headaches,
seizures, and other neurological symptoms.
Treatment includes medication to
kill tapeworms and corticosteroids.